# CONES Developers Meeting
Date: 14/04/2023
People: Lucas, Paolo, Miguel, Tom
Reporter: Tom

## Context

This has been the second of several meetings (that will be held on a weekly basis) to discuss on current and future developments that have to be done in CONES.

## Current topics and actions:

### Work done during the week

**CONES is now installed in the Cassiopée HPC**. Some jobs have been submitted on the `cavity` and the `pitzDaily` test cases.
Some errors have been solved, such as the `stateInf` option which has to be tuned according to the study case.

Even if simulations arrive to an end, an error is persisting in the `slurm_%j.err` file:

```
Error deleting file with cell IDs of the sensors: No such file or directory
double free or corruption (!prev)
[node34:411924] *** Process received signal ***
[node34:411924] Signal: Aborted (6)
[node34:411924] Signal code:  (-6)
[node34:411924] [ 0] /lib64/libc.so.6(+0x4eb80)[0x7f5f692d9b80]
[node34:411924] [ 1] /lib64/libc.so.6(gsignal+0x10f)[0x7f5f692d9aff]
[node34:411924] [ 2] /lib64/libc.so.6(abort+0x127)[0x7f5f692acea5]
[node34:411924] [ 3] /lib64/libc.so.6(+0x91097)[0x7f5f6931c097]
[node34:411924] [ 4] /lib64/libc.so.6(+0x984ec)[0x7f5f693234ec]
[node34:411924] [ 5] /lib64/libc.so.6(+0x9a29c)[0x7f5f6932529c]
[node34:411924] [ 6] /lib64/libc.so.6(__cxa_finalize+0xf7)[0x7f5f692dc7c7]
[node34:411924] [ 7] /modules/EasyBuild/V1/software/OpenFOAM/9-foss-2022a/OpenFOAM-9/platforms/linux64GccDPInt32Opt/lib/mpi/libPstream.so(+0x4927)[0x7f5f6cd6c927]
[node34:411924] *** End of error message ***
```
This error is out for each processor used. 



## Next Actions:
### Debugging

In the `$FOAM_BASH` file, the compilation option can be changed:
```sh
#- Optimised, debug, profiling:
#    WM_COMPILE_OPTION = Opt | Debug | Prof
: ${WM_COMPILE_OPTION:=Opt}; export WM_COMPILE_OPTION
```

A copy of the `$FOAM_BASH` file can be done with the different options, and let the user change the `$FOAM_BASH` according to its simulation. 

Some more info about debugging can be found [here](https://openfoamwiki.net/index.php/HowTo_debugging).


### `cwipiConfig` file proper to each test case

In order to prepare a wider usage of CONES, it would be great to have a `cwipiConfig` for each case, with working parameters.

### Suggestions

1. *From Paolo*, the idea would be (for instance with 5 members):

- Run simulation 1 until the end, and pause.
- Run simulation 2 until the end, and pause.
- Run simulation 3 until the end, and pause.
- Run simulation 4 until the end, and pause.
- Run simulation 5 until the end, and pause.

Now that the 5 simulaitons have finished, the analysis can run.
Once the analysis is over, the 5 simulations can run one by one, and then the 2nd analysis can run...


2. Could be better to have a log file for each simulation, to have a better understanding in case of errors.