# CONES Developers Meeting
Date: 31/03/23
People: Lucas, Paolo, Miguel, Tom, Marcello
Reporter: Tom

## Context

This has been the second of several meetings (that will be held on a weekly basis) to discuss on current and future developments that have to be done in CONES.

## Current topics and actions:

### Issues in push in the last week

When Poalo compiled, there were a lot of warnings and Paolo corrected them. Paolo changed the way some variables were declared.

Miguel had conflicts when doing operations on the Github repository files.

Sometimes, the merge that Git suggests is not correct and corresponds to what seems to be older commits.

Why updating branches? Why not creating new branches instead?

The `master` branch should be the reference for clean and working things, not for development files. Uploading files on the `master` branch should refer to an agreement before, according to Paolo. 


### OpenFOAM9 branch test

Lucas tested the `cavity` case on his computer, correctly working but one error at the end. Concerning the channel, Lucas also made it work, with some minor error appearing at the end : a library with the Smagorinsy model needs to be included.

For the channel, the solver is using a specific turbulence model (Smagorinsky turbulence model). 

`cwipiPimpleFoam` compiled in OpenFOAM 9. 

Lucas didn't encounter any conflict when committing everything to the `OpenFOAM9` branch. 

### EnKF

From Paolo's side, understanding of the EnKF routine and the way we could paralellize it. Struggling with trying to make a link between what is in the Overleaf CONES User's Guide and the code itself.

Breakdown of the EnKF algorithm, in order to set code's functions. Paralellization is discussed to be done at step 6 of the EnKF algorithm. The KF function is already organized. 

*Lucas only uses the x component and an iteration takes only 10 seconds.*
*Miguel will update the Overleaf file*

The KF function intervenes in the `KF_coupling.C` file, line 379. This functions needs:
- The state
- The observation
- The samples
- Nb of ensembles
- Nb of cells
- Nb of observations
- Nb of observations of velocity types
- ...
- *Total of about 20 inputs*

Maybe the code can changed in order to avoid re-doing things from scratch? The function needs to get lighter, move code outside of the function (one function cannot handle all the code). This function seems now too complex to be paralellized.
The $R$ matrix can be moved in a other function for example. 

$S_{k+1} (S_{k+1})^T + R_{k+1}$ has a size of number of observations times the size of members. 

Sizes are declared and can be found in the `KF_coupling_function.C`.

The `UInterpolating` is the function writing the observation on a text file. An interpolation has to be made because data can come from the cell center or from the points. There are different interpolation functions if you want to interpolate the velocity $U$, the pressure $p$, the velocity and the pressure $Up$...

The endgoal is using experimental data, and these data are rare. "A lot" depends on the computation time, on OpenFOAM iteration time, etc... (*in Lucas' case, CFD is 5sec and EnKF is 60sec, with **clipping**. No clipping get the computation time to 3min for the EnKF*).

Mention that the file is about **1500 line long**. 

### Scalability tests on HPC:

Scalability tests on HPC:
- *Strong* ones, where we have one problem and decomposite it in given number of processors.
-  *Weak* ones, where we have a lot of different problems and we want, for instance, a more refined mesh using 1 single core. We measure the time it takes on this single core. **This seems to be our situation the for EnKF calculation**.

If CONES is the KF function, scalability test has to be realized on this KF function. 


### Marcello's thoughts

Maybe some confusion about how to advance with these modules.
There are quite things that needs to be done, in a relative large timeframen (libraries, paralelization, etc...)

*Taking into account that computational resources need to be spent fast.*

For the code advancement, Paolohas a clear picture of how things have to continue. Whatever decisions are taken, write them down and follow them in quite strict way, in order to avoid huge confusions. 

*Paolo mentionned that work priorities are quite different from a person to another*

The problem is not the inversion, but the product before this inverion. 

The problem comes from the beginning of the algorithm because loads of things need to be loaded.

Paralellization of mesh calculation can wait a little bit.
Cleaning and restructuring the DA function can be discussed to find a rational stage where it could be more efficient.

If we want to advance well, in particular Paolo, some modules are already online: check how these modules are written, to see how these scripts are organized and get inpired by them.

*CONES is a coupling tool, to make a link between OpenFOAM and other platforms.* 


Considering roles and objectives, it is more logical that Lucas and Miguel, with different percentage for sure, make more attention to the OpenFOAM paralellization in CONES, and Paolo's main task would be to have good knowledge of existing codes, and to adapt them into CONES. Roles should not be mixed. 

*Marcello said that one idea could be to create processors from 0 to 9, and do one simulation on each processor. If 1 simulation is divided into 10 subdomains, there are processors from 0 to 99.*

*Paolo and Marcello were wondering if OpenFOAM was realizing that there were multiple simulations running.*

One solution could also be to create folders for each test case (simulation 1 to 40) and in each one, having the decomposition. Therefore, the path of execution of OpenFOAM must be modified every time.

Concerning Tom, by the month of May, if things are not set up yet, DA can be realized with URANS simulations.


## Decisions

Better if scalability test is done on the OpenFOAM side, and not on the EnKF side. 

OpenFOAM paralellization could be started in the next two or three weeks. Good if it is ready in the middle of May, but not the end of the world is Tom's case (3 million mesh elements) runs on only 1 processor. 


## Next Actions:

1. From April 24, test of OpenFOAM paralellization. 
2. Add the `pitzDaily` test case. 

####  Subactions:
1. A smart way has to be found to decompose the matrices for paralellized matrix calculations.

2. A quick test could be realized on the `cavity` test case to see what each function in `KF_coupling_function.C` really does.

3. Paralellization of the EnKF is a must. Number of components taken into account must be considered seriously because of the computation time. 

4. Time measurements can be realized inside the code to check how much time is spent on specific code parts (*Paolo has a tool to measure time spent without using `tic()` and `toc()` everywhere.*).

5. Rewrite a Kalman Filter that handles paralellization. 


## Good practices:

Section 5 of the Overleaf CONES User's guide has been updated by Miguel.

As last week, always pull from the master branch which is the reference.
Add the test-cases to OpenFoam9:tests branch

Next week, try to make the meeting shorter. 
