# CONES Developers Meeting
Date: 24/03/23
People: Lucas, Paolo, Miguel, Tom
Reporter: Paolo

## Context

This has been the first of several meetings (that will be held on a weekly basis) to discuss on current and future developments that have to be done in CONES.

## Current topics and actions:

### Porting to OpenFoam9
Issue: 5
Who: Paolo
What: The objective is to make CONES work on OpenFoam 9
Why: OpenFoam8 might not be supported in new-clusters and has already disappeared from Ubuntu 22.04 "jammy"

A new OpenFoam9 branch has been opened and few modifications have been done. The relevant one:
  -lincompressibleTransportModels library removed from the option file to compile cwipiPstream, since apparently this library is not present in v9
  -fvPatchVectorField movingWallU = vf.boundaryField()[top]; -> double movingWallU = vf.boundaryField()[top][0].component(0); This modification was causing a compiling issues.

Other than that, few adjustment have been made to resolve compilations warnings, and structure the project.
It has to be assessed how these modifications will affect the way CONES behave.

The only test have been performed with the "cavity_test" the outcome from the EnKF seems to be ok (Lucas and Miguel to cross-check), but there is still an MPI problem at the end of the process. Since the output of the EnKF works, we can say that CONES is working on v9, but it is better to assess it with other test-cases (e.g. PitzDaily and Plain channel).

Open Questions: what is the source of the MPI error? Hard to find. Discussions are in issue 5

### Parallel Cavity
Issue: #6
Who: Miguel
What: Parallelize each of the simulations used in the EnKF
Why: Tom will have to run simulations with around 30M elements. With such kind of grid, it is compulsory to run on more than one core per cwipiMember :)

So far, the idea is to generate n * m cases, where n is the number of members and m is the number of partitions that have to be done for each domain.
The idea is to obtain a speed-up of the EnKF by running it only on the part of the domain where the observations are located.
All the modifications made are made on the parallelCavity branch.
It is assessed that the global-rank and local-ranks are correctly defined. 
Also, it requires a specific bash script to run, since it will sed the files to adjust the boundary conditions for each OpenFoam-OpenFoam "coupling". Despite the validity of the approach, OpenFoam is throwing some error.

Open questions: the source of the error. Discussion in issue 6.

### Other topics
Some other topics have been discussed. 
#### User interface
The cwipiConfig file will get inevitably bigger and bigger as more and more test-cases will be involved.
A possible workaround could be build to add an interface in between the user and cwipiConfig. It will be a simple text file that is read by a python script which will write a cwipiConfig file accordingly to what the user wants to do. The inputs should be only related to "Data Assimilation".
#### Getting rid of test-case dependent functions.
There are a lot of functions that performs interpolation (scalars or vectors) that are bounded to the DA variables and/or the test-case and/or the modeling choice.
It can be nice to find some sort of generalization for some of them. Also each function is designed so to give a output on different files. This can be generalized as well.
The idea is to write to a single file in "append" mode all the variables and overwrite it in between EnKF analysis.

#### A structure for the next meetings
2 Hours Max. 
-First hour: we discuss about what we have done during the week, what are the problems, questions and answers. Then summarize next actions.
-Second hour: merge and resolve conflicts together. It can be done on a "development branch" that will be merged to the "master" after all the test-cases have been correctly verified.
#### Testing Testing Testing
We do require CONES to run some test-cases correctly each time an update is done.
For the time being these are:
  - cavity
  - pitzDaily
  - plain-channel

#### MPI EnKF
Parallelization can be done on the EnKF side -> Matrix Multiplication.
Eigen may have some limitations. Some different solution can be found. As soon as the EnKF can be parallelized, it will be easier to justify the use of CONES in HPC environments.


## Next Actions:
Miguel: test the OpenFoam9 porting with the pitzDaily case
Lucas: test the OpenFoam9 porting with the plane channel
Paolo: to find possible parallelization solutions for the KF_coupling.C

Everyone: as soon as the testing have been done -> Work together on the parallel cavity case.

## Good practices:
Always pull from the master branch which is the reference.
Add the test-cases to OpenFoam9:tests branch

## Next merge:
OpenFoam9 to be merged with the "developer" branch.
