# CONES Developers Meeting
Date: 07/04/2023
People: Lucas, Paolo, Miguel, Tom
Reporter: Tom

## Context

This has been the second of several meetings (that will be held on a weekly basis) to discuss on current and future developments that have to be done in CONES.

## Current topics and actions:

### Work done during the week

Lucas corrected some solvers, in the `createField.H` file for example.
Between `OpenFOAM8` and `OpenFOAM9`, the reference pressure is not the same (minor change). Pressure and functions are now set in a specific header.

This code has to be added in the solver file, for instance `cwipiSimpleFoamkEps.C`:
```c
#include "pressureReference.H"
#include "fvModels.H"
#include "fvConstraints.H" 
```

### EnKF and CWIPI

Try the same test case with different solvers, to see where the issue comes from ? (from test case or from solver?)

Paolo started to overview the [Sakov code](https://github.com/sakov/enkf-c). This code tries to minimize the matricial calculations. 
*Eigen could be replaced*. 
**We could imagine a data structuration with objects, consistent with the OpenFOAM meshes.**
$\longrightarrow$ Create an object with time, 3 coordinates, an arbitrary number of scalars. In this arbitrary part, 3 components of velocity, TKE, ...
CWIPI is good for sending data related to the mesh. Otherwise, a classic `mpisend` must be used. 

Mesh from OpenFOAM to `hdf5` file format ? Might be better for the Kalman Filter parallelization. 
*The velocity field is currently transfered by CWIPI, so is `hdf5` file format is useful?*

<!-- CWIPI control parameters:
```c
void addControlParams(int numberCwipiPhase, double deltaT, double currentTime, int nbParts, int partsReparty)
{
    // Add control paramaters that must be sent to KF_coupling code

    cwipi_add_local_int_control_parameter("numberCwipiPhase", numberCwipiPhase); // Number of DA phases
    cwipi_add_local_double_control_parameter("deltaT", deltaT); // DeltaT of CFD loop
    cwipi_add_local_double_control_parameter("currentTime", currentTime); // Start time of CFD simulation
    cwipi_add_local_int_control_parameter("nbParts", nbParts); // NOT USED ATM : Number of parts in the decomposition
    cwipi_add_local_int_control_parameter("partsReparty", partsReparty); // NOT USED ATM : Number of parts decompistion in y direction
}
``` -->

Try to launch `cavityTest` with different solvers (try laminar and turbulent). `cwipiIciFoam` is the solver with less issues.


## Next Actions:

Creation of an `OpenFOAM8` branch.

Try to see if CWIPI can be installed on Cassiopée cluster, because it can't be launched on Tom's computer (not enough cores).

